README.md, before:

# Open165

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) project bootstrapped with [`c3`](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/get-started/c3).

## First-time setup

Setup database using:
```bash
npm run db:migrate -- --local
npm run db:seed -- --local
```

## Start server

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

## Deploy

The application is deployed to Cloudflare Pages. The deployment is done automatically when a PR is merged to `main` branch.

If we want to preview the deployment locally, we can use the following command:

```bash
npm run preview
```

This locally builds and previews application using the [Wrangler](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/) CLI.

For more details see the [`@cloudflare/next-on-pages` recommended workflow](https://github.com/cloudflare/next-on-pages/blob/main/internal-packages/next-dev/README.md#recommended-development-workflow)

## Making changes to the database schema

The project uses Cloudflare D1 database and Prisma ORM. To make changes to the database schema, follow these steps:

1. Make changes to `db/schema.prisma`
2. Generate new migration SQL file via
    ```bash
    # Please replace <numbers> with the next number in the sequence and <description> with a brief description of the migration
    npm run gen:migration -- --output db/migrations/<numbers>_<description>.sql
    ```
3. Run the following command to apply migrations:
    ```bash
    # Apply to local DB
    npm run db:migrate -- --local
    # Apply to remote DB (need to login wrangler first)
    npm run db:migrate -- --remote
    ```
4. Update Typescript type for Prisma client using
    ```bash
    npx prisma generate
    ```

<details>
<summary>Details under the script</summary>

Reference documentation

- https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm/overview/databases/cloudflare-d1#differences-to-consider
- https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm/prisma-client/deployment/edge/deploy-to-cloudflare#deploying-a-nextjs-app-to-cloudflare-pages-with-cloudflarenext-on-pages

Details

- Migration scripts (`db/migrations/*.sql`) are created by prisma, as it compares your local sqlite DB and `schema.prisma` and outputs SQL file.
- Migration operation itself is managed by wrangler commands, as it keeps tracks of what migration files have been run.
</details>

## Cloudflare Bindings

Cloudflare [Bindings](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/functions/bindings/) are what allows you to interact with resources available in the Cloudflare Platform.

After we add or remove bindings from `wrangler.toml`, use the following command to update
Typescript types for `getRequestContext().env`:

```bash
npm run gen:env
```

<detail>
<summary>Details of Cloudflare bindings</summary>
- During development, `setupDevPlatform` from `@cloudflare/next-on-pages` is called to setup bindings for you. This function is called in the `next.config.mjs`.

- To use bindings in the preview mode you need to add them to the `pages:preview` script accordingly to the `wrangler pages dev` command. For more details see its [documentation](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/commands/#dev-1) or the [Pages Bindings documentation](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/functions/bindings/).

- To use bindings in the deployed application you will need to configure them in the Cloudflare [dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/). For more details see the [Pages Bindings documentation](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/functions/bindings/).
</detail>

Commit message:

feat: generate scam db sql

README.md, after:

# Open165

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) project bootstrapped with [`c3`](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/get-started/c3).

## First-time setup

Setup database using:
```bash
npm run db:migrate -- --local
npm run db:seed -- --local
```

## Start server

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

## Deploy

The application is deployed to Cloudflare Pages. The deployment is done automatically when a PR is merged to `main` branch.

If we want to preview the deployment locally, we can use the following command:

```bash
npm run preview
```

This locally builds and previews application using the [Wrangler](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/) CLI.

For more details see the [`@cloudflare/next-on-pages` recommended workflow](https://github.com/cloudflare/next-on-pages/blob/main/internal-packages/next-dev/README.md#recommended-development-workflow)

## Making changes to the database schema

The project uses Cloudflare D1 database and Prisma ORM. To make changes to the database schema, follow these steps:

1. Make changes to `db/schema.prisma`
2. Generate new migration SQL file via
    ```bash
    # Please replace <numbers> with the next number in the sequence and <description> with a brief description of the migration
    npm run gen:migration -- --output db/migrations/<numbers>_<description>.sql
    ```
3. Run the following command to apply migrations:
    ```bash
    # Apply to local DB
    npm run db:migrate -- --local
    # Apply to remote DB (need to login wrangler first)
    npm run db:migrate -- --remote
    ```
4. Update Typescript type for Prisma client using
    ```bash
    npx prisma generate
    ```

Please refrain from `prisma` migration and seed commands directly,
as it will not connect to the correct Cloudflare D1 database (local or remote).

<details>
<summary>Details under the script</summary>

Reference documentation

- https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm/overview/databases/cloudflare-d1#differences-to-consider
- https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm/prisma-client/deployment/edge/deploy-to-cloudflare#deploying-a-nextjs-app-to-cloudflare-pages-with-cloudflarenext-on-pages

Details

- Migration scripts (`db/migrations/*.sql`) are created by prisma, as it compares your local sqlite DB and `schema.prisma` and outputs SQL file.
- Migration operation itself is managed by wrangler commands, as it keeps tracks of what migration files have been run.
</details>

## Incorporating other's changes to the database schema

If you are pulling changes from the repository and the database schema has changed, you need to run the following commands

```bash
# Update local DB by applying new migrations
npm run db:migrate -- --local

# Update Prisma client
npx prisma generate
```

## Cloudflare Bindings

Cloudflare [Bindings](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/functions/bindings/) are what allows you to interact with resources available in the Cloudflare Platform.

After we add or remove bindings from `wrangler.toml`, use the following command to update
Typescript types for `getRequestContext().env`:

```bash
npm run gen:env
```

<detail>
<summary>Details of Cloudflare bindings</summary>
- During development, `setupDevPlatform` from `@cloudflare/next-on-pages` is called to setup bindings for you. This function is called in the `next.config.mjs`.

- To use bindings in the preview mode you need to add them to the `pages:preview` script accordingly to the `wrangler pages dev` command. For more details see its [documentation](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/commands/#dev-1) or the [Pages Bindings documentation](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/functions/bindings/).

- To use bindings in the deployed application you will need to configure them in the Cloudflare [dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/). For more details see the [Pages Bindings documentation](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/functions/bindings/).
</detail>
